SAS Enterprise Guide If you have SAS Enterprise Guide software, which runs only under
Windows, you may choose to submit your programs from within SAS Enterprise Guide. To do this,
open a Program window where you can type in your SAS program or open an existing SAS
program. The progam editor in SAS Enterprise Guide (starting with version 4.3) displays automatic
syntax help as you type your program, and there is a program analyzer that will generate a
diagram of your program to help you visualize the parts and how they fit together. You can choose
to run your code on the local machine, or on a remote server where SAS is installed. To run your
SAS program on a remote server, you may need to have additional SAS software installed. Also,
SAS Enterprise Guide can write SAS code for you through its extensive menu system. SAS
Enterprise Guide is project based, so all your programs, results, and references to data are stored in
one project file. Batch or background mode With batch or background mode, your SAS program is in a file.
You submit the file for processing with SAS. Your SAS program may start executing immediately,
or it could be put in a queue behind other jobs. Batch processing is used a lot on mainframe
computers. You can continue to work on your computer while your job is being processed, or
better yet, you can go to the baseball game and let the computer work in your absence. Batch
processing is usually less expensive than other methods and is especially good for large jobs which
can be set up to execute during off-hours when the rates are at their lowest. When your job is
complete, the results will be placed in a file or files, which you can display or print at any time.
To find out how to submit SAS programs for batch processing, check the SAS Help and
Documentation for your operating environment, or check with other SAS users at your site. Even
sites with the same operating environment may have different ways of submitting jobs in batch
mode.
Delwiche,The following figure shows a project in SAS Enterprise Guide 4.3.
The SAS windowing environment (also known as Display Manager) adopts the look and feel of
your operating environment. This is good for you because many aspects of the SAS windowing
environment will be familiar. But there are many ways in which you can customize your SAS
environment if you want. This makes writing about it challenging, because we can’t tell you exactly
what your SAS session will look like and how it will behave. However, there are common elements
between the various operating environments, and you will probably already be familiar with those
elements which are different.
